- [Instructor] So that we've talked about Maven
and the Java project structure,
it's time to get into the heart and soul of Maven,
the POM.xml file
Often, you will hear a Java developer
who has experience with Maven tell you
to do something in the POM file,
but you may be asking what it is really.
The POM file is the Project Object Model
it contains all of the details about the project,
the dependencies, the build,
and the reporting of the project itself.
The project information is top-level details of the project
This includes items like the group the project belongs to,
this is an organization unit in a Maven repository
and often corresponds to the root package of your project.
It also includes the project or artifact identifier,
this is the common name of your project.
Version is also included in the project information.
Most often developers use semantic versioning
for Maven projects but there are also a few qualifiers
added like snapshot or release
which varies from project to project.
There are a lot of other sections in the POM file
and we're going to talk about some of them individually
as we go through this course.
As such, I want to introduce you to them here.
Properties are often underutilized but important
in both small and large projects.
Dependencies and the associated dependency
management sections are what most people
immediately think about when they're thinking about
Maven POM files.
There's also a build section that defines plugins used
to build your project.
Finally, there's a report section
which identifies how to report information
about your project.
Now there are a couple sections
that we are not going to talk about
but they are important when you need them.
These tend to be organization specific
instead of project specific but not always.
They include repositories which point
to Maven repositories for artifacts.
Plugin repositories which, as you might imagine,
point to the plugins used by Maven itself.
And then there are profiles allowing
for overrides of configuration
and providing default behavior for common tasks.
Now these are all outside the basics of this course
because as I said, they're organization specific
most of the time.
We are now ready to dissect the most important sections
of the POM file.